welcome to casting 101 in this segment
we're going to talk about presentation
now what I mean by presentation is the
manner in which you're offering your fly
to the trout in order to hopefully
entice it to striking your fly you know
just like if you go to a five-star
restaurant you're not gonna eat the food
if they just slop it on the plate throw
it out there you need them to fluff it
up a little bit add some presentation to
it
the trout isn't gonna eat your fly if
you just sloppily cast it down there and
splash it around you need to have a good
presentation what I mean by that is you
want to cash softly so that your fly
just the lights on the surface of the
water you need to choose your casting
angle so that your line isn't spooking
the fish and you also need to achieve
what's called a drag free drift so that
your fly is naturally drifting down the
current just like it was a natural
insect so I have this Boulder here and I
think a trout is laying just behind it
it's a good-looking lie I've got a nice
soft current where the Boulder kind of
breaks the current I've got some it's a
good place for the fish to feed because
you got that fast current coming next to
the slow current where insects will
drift down just like a little conveyor
belt and what I'm gonna try to do is
cast right up onto that conveyor belt
and allow my fly to just drift into the
fish's viewing window the first thing I
need to do make sure I'm casting from
the right angle here I've chosen a
downstream position so that and just off
to the side so that when I cast my fly
line isn't spooking the fish the second
thing I'm going to do make sure when I
cast I stop high so that my fly just
just a lights on the surface of the
water rather than splashing down I want
to make sure that my fly line fully
extends so that it I don't get a sloppy
cast and scoop the fish in order to do
that all I'm going to do is make sure I
stop high so the line extends out
normally and then once the fly hits the
water I just allow it to drift naturally
through the fish's viewing window just
like so there are many ways to achieve a
drag free drift one of them is mending
which we'll talk about and then in
another segment
the way I've chosen here it's just my
choosing my casting position wisely
because I'm presenting from a downstream
angle my fly naturally drifts slowly
through the current without any drag if
I had chosen a different angle say a
cross stream or upstream my fly might
drag in the current but in the
downstream angle because there's no drag
on my fly I can present it with the
natural dead drift hopefully I get a
good presentation here I'll get a fish
to come eat my fly
you